.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Martijn van Duren (Rootnet) <m.vanduren@rootnet.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 17 2017 $
.Dt PRIVSEPD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm privsepd
.Nd The daemon for privilege separating php code.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl c Ar file
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl C Ar dir
.Op Fl g Ar group
.Op Fl s Ar socket
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an RPC daemon for PHP.
It is connection oriented and designed to provide an as near native interface
for the client as possible through the
.Xr remote 3php
interface.
Every connection is run in it's own process to ensure that multiple connections
don't interfere.
.Pp
Code made available through the daemon needs to be self-contained and is
loaded through the autoload directive in the configuration
.Ar file .
This autoload file is loaded at every connection, allowing code updates without
server reloads.
Besides regular calls
.Pq both functions and methods
the interface supports closures, arguments by reference, remote objects, and
cascading throwables.
Incoming function-, method- and attributerequests and returning throwables
originating are subject to a whitelist check before returning.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width xCxchroot
.It Fl C Ar chroot
Specifies the directory to which the daemon chroots.
This directory must contain all the dependencies for the code.
This includes the code itself.
.It Fl c Ar file
Specifies the configuration file.
There is no default file.
.It Fl d
Do not daemonize and log to
.Em stderr .
.It Fl g Ar group
The group the daemon will run as.
This can be either a groupname, or a gid.
.It Fl s
Specify the listening socket.
.It Fl u Ar user
The user the daemon will run as.
This can be either an username, or an uid.
.El
Although not required, it is strongly adviced to specify a
.Ar chroot ,
.Ar user ,
and
.Ar group .
.Sh FILES
The daemon does not provide default files, but the following components must be
provided either via cli flags or through the configuration
.Ar file :
.Bl -bullet
.It
Configuration
.Ar file
.It
An autoload file.
This file is used as the starting point for dynamically run code.
.It
.Ar socket
The location where the daemon should listen.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr php 1 ,
.Xr remote 3php ,
.Xr privsepd.conf 5
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command was written in 2017.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Martijn van Duren Aq Mt m.vanduren@rootnet.nl
