.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Martijn van Duren (Rootnet) <m.vanduren@rootnet.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: Jul 13 2017 $
.Dt PRIVSEPD_CHROOT
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm privsepd_chroot
.Nd chroot preparations for privsepd
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When setting up chrooting privsepd environment the sysadmin should be aware of
the running code and it's external dependencies.
This file attempts to list most common problems and their solutions, but it's
far from exhaustive.
Note that this file doesn't target any specific operating system.
Where specifics are known they will be mentioned.
Always consult the manpages of your local system.
.Pp
All the files mentioned below are intended to be placed inside the chroot
directory.
.Ss NETWORKING
When connecting to the network several steps have to be taken.
.Bl -tag -width Hostname resolving
.It Hostname resolving
To resolve a hostname needs to have either
.Pa /etc/hosts
or
.Pa /etc/resolv.conf
available.
Be aware that GNU libc requires libnss_dns.so.2 available.
This can be made available either by copying it into the chroot, or by
pre-loading it via the
.Ev LD_PRELOAD
environment variable.
The latter option is preferred.
.It SSL/TLS
To verify a certificate the certificate authority needs to be available.
This can be found under
.Pa /etc/ssl/cert.pem
on
.Ox ,
and
.Pa /usr/lib/ssl/cert.pem
on Debian/Linux.
To initiate the connection a source of entropy needs to be available.
When linked against LibreSSL this is available by default through the
.Xr arc4random 3
function.
Other systems need to have
.Pa /dev/urandom
available for entropy.
.El
.Ss LOGGING
When logging to syslog most systems require
.Pa /dev/log
to be available.
.Ox
provides a system call and doesn't require this file to be available.
.Ss MAILING
Sending mail via the mail function requires the
.Xr sendmail 8
and a
.Xr sh 1
binary to be available.
A statically compiled versions of these applications are advised.
For
.Xr sendmail 8
I advise femail, as it has the minimal amount of dependencies.
.Ss TIMEZONE
When using timezone related functionality like DateTime the zonefiles need to be
available.
Normally these can be found under
.Pa /usr/share/zoneinfo/ .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chroot 2 ,
.Xr hosts 5 ,
.Xr resolv.conf 5 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Pp
For femail see:
.Lk http://bulabula.org/femail/
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Martijn van Duren Aq Mt m.vanduren@rootnet.nl
