.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Martijn van Duren (Rootnet) <m.vanduren@rootnet.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 17 2017 $
.Dt \eRootnet\ePrivsep\eRemote 3php
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm \eRootnet\ePrivsep\eRemote
.Nd Simple interface to the privsepd(8)
daemon.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd require_once("/path/to/remote.php");
.Vt abstract class Nm
.Vt public static
.Va \eRootnet\ePrivsep\eRemote::$spath
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
lives inside the main application and acts as the gateway to the
.Xr privsepd 8
daemon.
This abstract class provides the magic methods required that transform every
request into a serialized abstract which is sent to the daemon.
The daemon executes the code and returns the return value, arguments, and
potential throwables.
This allows the programmer to call code living inside the daemon as if it was
defined locally.
.Pp
The
.Va \eRootnet\ePrivsep\eRemote::$spath
variable is used to determine the location of the daemon on a per class basis.
This allows for the utilization of multiple daemons in a single application.
Currently tcp and unix sockets are supported.
Note that if multiple privsepd daemons are used that each class inheriting from
remote needs to redefine
.Va \eRootnet\ePrivsep\eRemote::$spath .
If this is omitted the static variable in
.Nm
is used.
.Pp
Since
.Fn __call
and
.Fn __callStatic
don't support parameters by reference, methods that require them need to be
implemented separately.
The following universal method should be used:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
public [static] function <method>(&...$arguments) {
	return self::call(__FUNCTION__, $arguments, $this);
}
.Ed
.Pp
It is possible to return an arbitrary class to main application.
If the returned class is not implemented as a child of
.Nm
the class is returned as a
.Fd \eRootnet\ePrivsep\eFallback .
This generic class inherits from
.Nm
same as other remote classes, but has no methods by reference and a
.Fn get_class
call will not return the remote class name.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr php 1 ,
.Xr privsepd 8
.Rs
.%T List of Supported Socket Transports
.%U http://php.net/manual/en/transports.php
.Re
.Rs
.%T Magic Methods
.%U http://php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.magic.php
.Re
.Rs
.%T get_class
.%U http://php.net/manual/en/function.get-class.php
.Re
